随着射频识别技术、网络协议和数据存储技术的不断发展，车联网的通信速率显著提高，车联网对计算资源的需求不断增加，同时对时延的要求也日益严格。时延逐渐成为车联网中日益重要的指标。在这一背景下，云计算技术已经无法单独解决车辆网络中计算资源匮乏的问题。因此车辆边缘计算应运而生。边缘服务器的出现使得计算资源得以下沉至靠近车辆的路侧，车联网中的车辆可以将任务分配给边缘服务器。然而，尽管边缘计算有效地提升了计算效率，但计算资源始终是有限的，边缘服务器难以满足不断增长的计算需求。最近的研究表明，可以将任务卸载给附近的车辆。因此，实施高效的车联网任务卸载策略来提高资源利用率是一个可行的解决方案。在进行任务卸载时，必然存在一些不可被卸载的任务。本文旨在存在不可卸载任务的情况下，以提高能源利用效率为目标，研究如何利用启发式算法解决车联网中的任务卸载问题。具体而言，本文的研究工作包括以下几个方面：
（1）为了提高资源的利用率，本文提出了基于边缘计算的任务卸载框架，并将问题建模为数学规划的形式。由于该问题属于 NP 难问题，无法在多项式时间内得到精确解，因此我们采用启发式算法即基因算法来解决。实验结果表明，我们提出的调度算法不仅能够提高任务的利用率，还能较好地兼顾公平性。另外，算法的运行时间较短，适应车联网实时任务处理环境。
（2）为了进一步加快算法的运行时间，更好的满足任务对时延的需求，将基于梯度的侏儒猫鼬算法修改为能够解决离散问题的侏儒猫鼬算法。通过重新新定义运算符号，来解决离散问题的更新步骤。实验结果表明，相比较于基因算法，修改后的侏儒猫鼬算法的运行时间更短，能够更好的满足任务对时延的需求。


With the continuous development of radio frequency identification technology, network protocols, and data storage technology, the rate of communication on the Internet of Vehicles has significantly improved. The Internet of Vehicles has an increasing demand for computing resources, while the requirements for latency are also becoming increasingly stringent.
Latency is gradually becoming an increasingly important indicator in the Internet of Vehicles. In such a circumstance, cloud computing technology alone can no longer solve the problem of insufficient computing resources in vehicle networks. Therefore, vehicle edge computing has emerged. The emergence of edge servers allows computing resources to be moved closer to the vehicles on the roadside, and vehicles in the Internet of Vehicles can offload tasks to edge servers. However, although edge computing effectively improves computing efficiency, computing resources are still limited and struggle to meet the growing demands.
Recent studies have shown that tasks can be offloaded to nearby vehicles. Implementing efficient task offloading strategies in the Internet of Vehicles to improve resource utilization is a feasible solution to address this issue.
During task offloading, there are inevitably some tasks that cannot be offloaded. This thesis investigates how to use heuristic algorithms to address offloading issues on the Internet of Vehicles to improve energy utilization efficiency when tasks cannot be offloaded.
Specifically, the research content of the thesis includes the following aspects:
(1) To improve resource utilization, this article proposes an edge computing-based task offloading framework and models the problem in mathematical programming. Since the problem belongs to the NP-hard problem, obtaining an exact solution in polynomial time is impossible, so we use heuristic algorithms such as genetic algorithms to solve it. Experimental results show that our proposed scheduling algorithm not only improves task utilization but also takes fairness into account. In addition, the algorithm's running time is short, which is suitable for real-time task-processing environments in the Internet of Vehicles.
(2) To further accelerate the algorithm's running time and better meet the requirements of tasks for latency, the gradient-based honey badger algorithm is modified to solve discrete problems. The update step of discrete problems can be solved by redefining the operator symbol. The experimental results show that compared with genetic algorithms, the modified honey badger algorithm has a shorter running time and can better meet the requirements of tasks for latency.